Data Science: The Sexiest Job in the 21st Century

The global search for skilled data scientists is not merely a search for statisticians or computer scientists

 In fact, the firms are searching for well-rounded individuals who possess the subject matter expertise, some experience 
 in software programming and analytics, and exceptional communication skills.

 Our digital footprint has expanded rapidly over the past 10 years.
 The size of the digital universe was roughly 130 billion gigabytes in 1995. By 2020, this number will swell to 40 trillion gigabytes.

 Companies will compete for hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of new workers needed to navigate the digital world.

 No wonder the prestigious Harvard Business Review called data science the sexiest job in the 21st century.

 A report by the McKinsey Global Institute warns of huge talent shortages for data and analytics

 By 2018, the United States alone could face a shortage of 140,000 to 190,000 people with deep analytical skills as well as 
 1.5 million managers and analysts with the know-how to use the analysis of big data to make effective decisions.

 Because the digital revolution has touched every aspect of our lives,
  the opportunity to benefit from learning about our behaviors is more so now than ever before. 
  Given the right data, marketers can take sneak peeks into our habit formation. 
  Research in neurology and psychology is revealing how habits and preferences are formed and 
  retailers like Target are out to profit from it. However, the retailers can only do so if they have 
  data scientists working for them. "For this reason, it is like an arms race to hire statisticians nowadays", 
  said Andreas Weigend, the former chief scientist at Amazon.com.

Professor Peter Fader, 
who manages the Customer Analytics Initiative at Wharton, 
knows that executives reach the C-suite without having to interact with data. 
He believes that the real change will happen when executives are well-versed in data and analytics.


 Accenture believes that the demand for data scientists may outstrip supply by 250,000 in 2015 alone

  A similar survey of 150 executives by KPMG in 2014 found that 85% of the respondents did not know how to analyze data


  Most organizations are unable to connect the dots because they do not fully
   understand how data and analytics can transform their business, 
   Alwin Magimay, head of digital and analytics for KPMG UK, said in an interview in May 2015.

Bernard Marr writing for Forbes also raises concerns about the insufficient analytics talent.
   aren't enough people with the required skills to analyze and interpret this information-transforming 
   it from raw numerical (or other) data into actionable insights-the ultimate aim of any Big Data-driven initiative, 
   he wrote. Bernard quotes a survey by Gartner of business leaders of whom more than 50% reported the lack of in-house 
   expertise in data science.


 Walmart approached Kaggle to host a competition for analyzing its proprietary data. 
 The retailer provided sales data from a shortlist of stores and asked the competitors 
 to develop better forecasts of sales based on promotion schemes.